there a senior political analyst he
joins us live from Paris Maran what do
you think is going on in Rafa we've seen
uh two attacks on in the in in the
course of the last 72 hours two attacks
on displaced people camps and now we're
hearing that tanks have been spotted uh
along the Philadelphia Corridor are you
getting a sense that things are about to
escalate well it is a full scale
offensive even though the Israelis would
like to call it limited in order to
please the bid Administration but this
is a fullscale invasion of Rafa and it
is more of the same that we've seen the
past 8 months what is uh something what
is different and perhaps uhit surprising
for some people who were listening to
the rulings in the uh icj International
cour of justice and listen to the uh
prosecutor of the international criminal
court they would have thought uh that
things would wind down that the Israeli
government would be you know smart
enough uh to slow down its war crimes in
Gaza in fact what we're seeing is
exactly the opposite Israel is
escalating its War it's intensifying its
offensive against Rafa killing dozens
and more of people every day destroying
whatever left of hospitals in the city
as we've been reporting uh from
there right Mar exactly as you say I
mean we we've heard from the IC uh
saying that prime minister netan is
guilty of war crimes we've had the icj
ruling just a few days ago demanding
that Israel stop its operation in Rafa
and yet here we are we are seeing this
escalation so
how can we how can Israel be held
accountable for
this well clearly the Israelis are
trying to be smart or clever clever
meaning they're trying to keep up an
appearance of uh being clever about
their war crimes so they're talking more
about
investigations and they're talking more
about mistakes as if everyday's mistakes
is a mistake no everyday's mistakes over
8 months is a pattern and the pattern is
a pattern of war crimes and they try to
deflect that with more lies lying is a
strategy now for the Israeli government
not just a tactic but in the end of the
day if you simply look at the statistics
and I've been looking at them today this
is what comes up and please you know I
hope our viewers around the world will
pay attention to the
math if the United States where
Gaza today we would be talking about 16
million
casualties 5 million deaths
including 2 million children
killed by Israelis in Gaza the past 8
months 16 million
casualties 5 million American deaths 2
million American children killed if we
talk proportionally between Gaza of 2.3
million and America of some 340 million
this is the situation today in Gaza the
Israelis try to deflect and use all
kinds of uh propaganda in order to show
that they in fact they care for human
life or as Netanyahu likes to put it
civilian deaths is a tragedy for Israel
a strategy for Hamas well hug this is
all crap coming out of the Israelis who
are responsible for the war crimes and
for the death and destruction in Gaza
Maron uh I'm just going to bring up one
more point with you because uh we're
just seeing a report uh I'm just seeing
it on the news wires that the US
military has been forced to suspend Aid
deliveries to Gaza by sea from that
temporary Pier that they built because
it's been damaged by bad weather this is
interesting of course because uh we we
know the the main Aid coming into Gaza
has been through RAF but that's no
longer possible with the Israelis with
the Israeli Army there so this new Port
if you like was the only way just a tiny
bit of Aid could trickle through and now
even that is
closed yeah know let me tell you what's
really important and probably
unintentional uh by the Americans as
they uh established that portable Port
um in
Gaza they presumably tried to take a bit
of a distance from the Israelis to say
if Israel doesn't want to let the aid in
we will try to help although all the
United Nations agency have said it's not
sufficient we need the land uh Crossings
to be open but what it says it basically
proves that America Israel's foremost
Ally does believe that Israel has been
blocking
Aid and medical and food to to enter
Gaza which is a war crime which is what
been at the heart of the indictment uh
by the prosecutor of the inter
international criminal court and which
has been at the heart of the
international court of justice that
Israel has weaponized hunger that Israel
has intentionally blocked aid for months
from coming into Gaza fuel food Medical
Aid and so on so forth have been blocked
pushing the Americans to try to take a
bit bit of of a distance and construct a
port that's apparently cost something
like a quarter of a billion dollars only
so that they don't put enough pressure
on Israel or punish Israel for blocking
the food from entering into Gaza so now
there famine in Gaza as testified by
almost every other person of knowledge
on the subject and Israel is subject to
war crimes and genocide at the icj and
the ICC because of weaponizing hunger in
Gaza thank you for your time Maran
Bashar Al jazer senior political analyst
there from
Paris make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz